The task of this project is to write five programs (in C) that operate on an ext2 formatted virtual disk. The executables must be named ext2_ls, ext2_cp, ext2_mkdir, ext2_ln, and ext2_rm and must take the specified arguments.  
ext2_ls: This program takes two command line arguments. The first is the name of an ext2 formatted virtual disk. The second is an absolute path on the ext2 formatted disk. The program should work like ls -1 (that's number one "1", not lowercase letter "L"), printing each directory entry on a separate line. If the flag "-a" is specified (after the disk image argument), the program also prints the . and .. entries. In other words, it will print one line for every directory entry in the directory specified by the absolute path. If the path does not exist, print "No such file or directory", and return an ENOENT. Directories passed as the second argument may end in a "/" - in such cases the contents of the last directory in the path (before the "/") should be printed (as ls would do). Additionally, the path (the last argument) may be a file or link. In this case, this program simply print the file/link name (if it exists) on a single line, and refrain from printing the . and ...   
ext2_cp: This program takes three command line arguments. The first is the name of an ext2 formatted virtual disk. The second is the path to a file on your native operating system, and the third is an absolute path on your ext2 formatted disk. The program should work like cp, copying the file on your native file system onto the specified location on the disk. If the specified file or target location does not exist, then the program returns the appropriate error (ENOENT). Please read the specifications of ext2 carefully, some things you will not need to worry about (like permissions, gid, uid, etc.), while setting other information in the inodes may be important (e.g., i_dtime).  
ext2_mkdir: This program takes two command line arguments. The first is the name of an ext2 formatted virtual disk. The second is an absolute path on your ext2 formatted disk. The program should work like mkdir, creating the final directory on the specified path on the disk. If any component on the path to the location where the final directory is to be created does not exist or if the specified directory already exists, then the program should return the appropriate error (ENOENT or EEXIST). Again, please read the specifications to make sure you're implementing everything correctly (e.g., directory entries should be aligned to 4B, entry names are not null-terminated, etc.).  
ext2_ln: This program takes three command line arguments. The first is the name of an ext2 formatted virtual disk. The other two are absolute paths on your ext2 formatted disk. The program should work like ln, creating a link from the first specified file to the second specified path. If the source file does not exist (ENOENT), if the link name already exists (EEXIST), or if either location refers to a directory (EISDIR), then the program should return the appropriate error. Note that this version of ln only works with files. Additionally, this command may take a "-s" flag, after the disk image argument. When this flag is used, the program creates a symlink instead (other arguments remain the same). If in doubt about correct operation of links, use the ext2 specs and ask on the discussion board.  
ext2_rm: This program takes two command line arguments. The first is the name of an ext2 formatted virtual disk, and the second is an absolute path to a file or link (not a directory) on that disk. The program should work like rm, removing the specified file from the disk. If the file does not exist or if it is a directory, then the program should return the appropriate error. Once again, please read the specifications of ext2 carefully, to figure out what needs to actually happen when a file or link is removed (e.g., no need to zero out data blocks, must set i_dtime in the inode, removing a directory entry need not shift the directory entries after the one being deleted, etc.).  
Also implemented an additional "-r" flag (after the disk image argument), which allows removing directories as well. In this case, we recursively remove all the contents of the directory specified in the last argument. If "-r" is used with a regular file or link, then it should be ignored (the ext2_rm operation should be carried out as if the flag had not been entered). The additional functionality in this separate source file.  

These disks inside image file folder were each created and formatted in the same way (on an ubuntu virtual machine):  

% dd if=/dev/zero of=~/DISKNAME.img bs=1024 count=128  
% mke2fs -N 32 DISKNAME.img  
% sudo mount -o loop ~/DISKNAME.img /home/reid/mntpoint  
% cd /home/reid/mntpoint  
% ...... normal linux commands to add/remove files/directories/links .....  
% cd ~  
% umount /home/reid/mntpoint  
